[GIRL] Oh, dear, what a waste.
After everything I did
to make her able
to read the room, too.
Huh?
[chuckles softly]
How surprising!
So you can actually see me.
Guess I gotta hand it
to you, Azusagawa.
And who are you, exactly?
Oh, come on
Hm?
'Cause my name
is Touko Kirishima.
So, what, do you just go
around town in that Santa outfit
handing out puberty syndrome
to everyone as presents?
Well, yeah.
Santa Claus's job is to visit
all the nice boys and girls
and pass out presents
to them, you know?
Oh, really? So that means
you showed up in front of me
because I was being nice.
Actually, you were trying
to reveal Santa's true identity.
That puts you
on the naughty list.
Do you think you could
do me a little favor?
What is it?
Can you maybe not pass
those presents out anymore?
-Okay.
-Huh?
Okay?
After all, I'm all out
of presents in my bag of gifts.
Hold on. How many did you have
in there before?
About this many.
A hundred?
Uh-uh!
that guess was way off.
You shouldn't
underestimate Santa Claus.
A thousand, then?
Close! About ten million.
[chuckles]
You see, it's that person
that person
and even them.
I gifted presents to everyone.
Santa shouldn't be working
on any days
aside from Christmas.
They're the ones
who wanted the presents
so you can't blame me.
[chuckles] That girl
was one of them.
Huh?
[♪ opening theme song playing]
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF SANTA CLAUS
OCTOBER 30TH
Question for you, Kunimi.
What's up?
Do you like Miniskirt Santas?
HEROISM
No. Not exactly.
Oh. Then do you love them?
Yeah. Most definitely.
So, for instance
if you noticed an alluring Santa
in a miniskirt passing by
what would you do next?
Mm. A double take?
Yeah, right.
Then I'd probably gawk at her.
If you boys are done with
your stupid locker room talk
can we get going now?
You know, Sakuta and Futaba
you've both changed
since I last saw you.
You've changed
more than we have, Kunimi.
So, what is it like living as
a heroic firefighter every day?
I go back and forth
from being on duty
for 24 hours straight
I report for duty in the morning
and work till the next morning.
Then I get to be off the clock
an entire day.
Hold on a second.
Does that mean you're here
right after a graveyard shift?
Are you okay physically?
Oh, yeah. We take naps
in shifts, so don't worry.
Although we do keep
our uniforms on
so we're able to deploy
at any time.
Look at Kunimi.
Already a proper member
of the working force.
Yeah, of course I am.
At least enough so I can order
a cauldron sardine bowl
and fried chicken together.
[SAKUTA] Damn bourgeoisies.
You're free
to have some too, Futaba.
[RIO] Then I'll just take one.
So, how's college life
been treating you?
Been having any fun?
From what I've been hearing
college kids hang out at
hobby clubs and mixers, right?
Perhaps that's true for all
other college students but me.
No one has ever even invited me
to a matchmaking party.
Azusagawa was impossible
to invite 'cause he already has
the prettiest girlfriend
in the world.
Yeah, well
Have you ever been to one?
Absolutely not.
Absolutely? Why not?
But surely you've been invited
to one, right?
Of course I've been invited.
But I had a shift
for my tutoring job on that day.
Oh, so you had a convenient
excuse to decline the offer.
[grunts]
-[phone vibrates]
-Huh?
Oh, it's my classmate.
Don't worry about us.
Go answer it.
Sorry.
Hey. What's up?
[YUUMA] Futaba's fully embracing
college life, huh?
[SAKUTA] She is
a college student, after all.
[YUUMA] Yeah, that's true.
Her pupils at the cram school
have a lot of respect
for her, too. More than me.
Yeah, I heard about that.
Oh, from Futaba?
From one
of my basketball juniors.
He's actually
one of her students.
You'd recognize him
in an instant
because he's taller than me.
Oh, there is one really big
student at the cram school.
Well, anyway
I'm glad that both of you
are doing all right
and seem to be having
some fun, too.
-Was that a friend on the phone?
-[RIO] Yeah.
I've been trying to convince her
to introduce me to them
but she's not
letting me meet them.
How many times do I have to say
that I have no reason
to introduce them to you?
I have to vet them to make sure
they're taking good care of you.
-That's right.
-[sighs]
I'll ask next time.
Oh. For real?
[RIO] Yeah. I'll just ask
if they'd like to meet two guys
who have girlfriends.
[SAKUTA] You're never gonna
let us meet them, are you?
[Kunimi laughs]
Enoshima's still on land.
So wicked.
The photo's good, too.
[KUNIMI] We should
take a picture, too.
I shall title this piece
"Arrival at Enoshima."
We should get back
on the mainland.
Any longer, and this area
will be underwater.
Yeah. We'd better
head back soon.
I gotta get to work after this.
[RIO] And Kunimi
if you're off duty
-[KUNIMI] By the way, Sakuta...
-Hm?
You got something to tell me?
Good job working hard
in your six-month training.
And congrats on earning a spot
in a brigade.
Is that enough?
Yep, like I thought
Noticed what?
I'll stay quiet for now.
I think it'll be
more interesting that way.
[RIO] Being a firefighter
seems like hard work.
[SAKUTA] It suits Kunimi
The same can't be said
for you, Azusagawa.
Yeah, well, my dream
is to become Santa Claus
so I'm okay with that.
Maybe saying stuff like that
is what caused you
to see an illusion
of a Miniskirt Santa.
So? What do you think
that was all about?
Considering you are the only
person who was able to see her
this case sounds rather similar
to that of Sakurajima's.
Hm.
I did a fair amount
of online research
into Touko Kirishima as well
but all the results
that came up in the search
only gave me rumors
with no reliable credibility.
[SAKUTA] I heard there's one
that said her true identity
was Mai.
[RIO] When you look
from another perspective
no information
coming out these days
might be even more unnatural.
Because the names
of perpetrators
that news outlets and newspapers
don't disclose
are plastered
all over the internet.
But similar
to how it was with Mai
that people
around Touko Kirishima
aren't able to recognize
she's even there.
Isn't that why she can keep
her true identity a mystery?
If that's the case
this woman has been living
the life of a ghost
for nearly two years
at this point.
That's about how long ago
Touko Kirishima started
uploading videos, right?
[SAKUTA] Living like a ghost
for two years
has gotta be pretty rough.
Even if this Miniskirt Santa
did hand out puberty syndrome
as presents to everyone
what do you want to do about it?
Do you really want to rescue
everyone from puberty syndrome
like some sort
of hero of justice?
[SAKUTA] Everyone?
You mean ten million people?
[RIO] Right. Ten million people.
Unfortunately
of being lovey-dovey with Mai
for all that.
That said
you do have one particular
person in mind, don't you?
Ikumi Akagi, by any chance?
I wouldn't exactly say
she's on my mind
but it's more like something
about her is bothering me.
[RIO] Perhaps it'd be better
if you didn't involve yourself
with Touko Kirishima
or Ikumi Akagi.
[SAKUTA] You know
to have friends
that truly worry about you.
[RIO] It's a pain in the butt
to give advice all the time.
Also, when something like this
happens on a regular basis
it feels exactly like...
Like what?
A great detective who always
happens to encounter murders
no matter where he goes.
Do you have any advice
to get me out of that situation?
Well, for starters, why don't
you ask the Miniskirt Santa
for her contact info
when you see her again?
[SAKUTA] What do you think
about guys
who ask girls for phone numbers
when they have girlfriends?
[RIO] I think they're
complete rascals.
[elevator bell dings]
[PROFESSOR] No I didn't.
I swear to you.
Please, just calm down.
We can discuss in another room.
It's a misunderstanding.
-Right? Tell him.
-Uh...
I'm so sorry.
I don't really know what I did
but I never thought of you
that way, Professor.
This can't be.
You said you could rely on me.
Now, Professor Sakimoto.
This way.
You said you wanted advice
on things other than academics.
You can tell me
all the details later.
That's messed up.
I saw this exact thing
on DREAMING.
Check this out.
Azusagawa, you better not
end up like that guy.
Do you seriously believe that
I would go after
one of my students?
I know you wouldn't
but what if one of them tries
to go after you, huh?
Huh?
[NODOKA] Wait
Isn't that just
one of your fantasies?
Oh, you're in here, Toyohama?
Duh! I've been in here
the whole time!
OCTOBER 31ST
Even if you were invisible
around a university campus
dressed like that.
Did you hear that, Mai?
She's saying
you lack common sense.
Although, of course
Mai's bunny girl outfit
was more provo-- [groans]
Considering this girl
was invisible
to everyone but Sakuta
the situation sounds
similar to my case.
What are you guys
even talking about?
[SAKUTA] Oh, yeah, Toyohama
when Hirokawa did the commercial
where she covered
Touko Kirishima's song
she didn't meet
the actual artist, did she?
She really wanted to
Even the company that chose
the song for the commercial said
all contact with the artist
was through email.
First of all
I think we should start
by talking with Ikumi Akagi
who went to middle school
with Sakuta.
She supposedly got a present
from the Miniskirt Santa
Apparently.
[MAI] What kind of girl was she?
I don't remember her too well
was a straightforward
honor student type.
And, to be honest
I hardly spoke with her
back in middle school, anyway.
So this girl who's constantly
on your mind
is one you hardly spoke to?
Is that because you met her
in the other possible world?
Well, yeah, there's that, too.
But on the day of
the matriculation ceremony...
You're Azusagawa, right?
Hm?
Oh, and aren't you Akagi?
Yeah.
Long time no see.
She was actually the one
who approached me initially.
So, I was wondering
if there was something
she was trying to tell me.
And your gut is telling you
that whatever it is has to do
with puberty syndrome, right?
[SAKUTA] Something like that.
SILVER LEAF FESTIVAL
[indistinct chatter]
[grunts softly]
You guys are performing
at the festival?
What? Yeah. Didn't I tell you?
I guess I was pretty busy
with all that Zukki stuff
and the Miniskirt Santa.
-How do I look? [laughs]
-You got the right spirit.
Don't worry. I can see them
Oh. That's right.
Today is Halloween, isn't it?
SEEKING STUDENT
VOLUNTEERS
APPLICATIONS AND INQUIRIES
VOLUNTEER SUPPORT OFFICE
If what Touko Kirishima
told me before is true
and Akagi was one of the people
who was given puberty syndrome
as a present
what exactly is the nature
of Akagi's puberty syndrome?
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF SANTA CLAUS
Hello. May I sit here?
No, you may not.
Well, I'm sitting here anyway.
Azusagawa
How can I be alone
when you're here, too?
I swear, you're so annoying.
You're alone again today, Mito?
How can I be alone
when you're here too?
Oh, look, you're annoying too.
Is Mai busy with her work today?
Had work yesterday
and the day before.
Although she did get
to drive me to campus today.
[MIORI] I see.
Okay, then.
Here you go.
You can give Mai's to her later.
Is today Jam Day?
No, actually, I think Jam Day
was on April 20th.
So there really is a Jam Day.
[MIORI] Think of it
as a souvenir.
We went for a drive yesterday
to celebrate
Manami getting her license.
Good to hear that you're
getting along with your friend.
I'm in college now. I have
to navigate relations well.
And there's nothing to gain
from constantly arguing
with somebody else.
I got invited
to another mixer today, too.
Apparently, the guys are
handsome med school students.
Come to think of it
how your so-called friends
set up matchmaking parties
-for your boyfriend-less self.
-Yeah.
Hard to say no because
they're doing it for me.
You are in college now
so you got to navigate
relations well, don't you?
There's nothing to gain
from constantly arguing.
This guy really pisses me off.
Oh, hey!
There you are, Azusagawa.
Oh, uh, Mito?
All righty. I'll leave the rest
for the young'uns
so take your time.
Too bad for you, Fukuyama.
Too bad what?
Would've been a good chance
to get closer to Mito.
You really think
I'm emotionally ready for that?
I thought you were always ready
because of how badly
you want a cute girlfriend.
If I had that confidence
But anyway, are you free today?
I'm going to a mixer
but someone got a cold
I don't know.
Aren't guys who have girlfriends
like a wet blanket
at those kinds of places?
I'd really appreciate it
Come on, Azusagawa, please?
I mean, all the girls
are in nursing, man!
They're nursing?
Not like that. They're nurses.
Give me a little more
hype, please.
Future ones, right?
No way. You mean
you aren't into nurses?
I'd join without hesitation
if it was a Miniskirt Santa.
That's also nice.
But seriously
Are you okay with me not finding
a cute girlfriend who's a nurse?
I couldn't care less.
Don't be like that!
Regardless, Mai would
never authorize it
in the first place.
All right, then.
Would it be okay
if you got her permission?
[MAI] Why don't you go?
[SAKUTA] No. Shouldn't I not?
Think about it, Sakuta.
If you miss this opportunity
you might never get
a chance again.
Even if that's true
You're my girlfriend after all.
And as your girlfriend
You did say the girls
are in nursing, didn't you?
Isn't Akagi studying
to be a nurse as well?
Yeah, she is, but...
It's a good chance
to learn something.
[sighs]
[doors beeping]
Oh, man. My nerves
are starting to get to me.
There's a good way
to relieve your anxiety.
Oh? Like what?
First you start by putting
both of your index fingers
-at the edge of your mouth.
-Like this?
And then stretch out your mouth
by pulling them outwards.
Like this?
Keep your fingers there
and say, "Kanazawa-bunko."
Kanazawa-unko.
[SAKUTA] You can use
that unko joke
if you run out of things
to talk about at the mixer.
[TAKUMI] Thanks
but I'll do my best
and not resort to your poo joke.
Quite a few people out here.
It is Halloween after all.
Azusagawa
If I stray, I'll just go home.
That's why I'm telling you.
[SAKUTA] Then what?
Want to hold hands?
[TAKUMI] What? No way!
Hey there. I'm Ryohei Kodani.
I'm a sophomore
in international commerce.
Yeah. Hello.
I'm Sakuta Azusagawa
a freshman majoring
in statistical science.
Two girls coming tonight
let me know
they just arrived
at the station.
The other's gonna be late
so we'll get started
once those two get here.
But I gotta admit
I've been wanting to talk to you
on a personal level.
I'm not being targeted, am I?
No way. Why would you be?
[laughs]
-Good evening.
-Good evening, boys.
[RYOHEI] Oh, we've been waiting.
Please, please, sit down.
-Okay. Excuse me.
-Pardon me.
-[laughter]
-[RYOHEI] Yeah, for real.
And the karaoke party
was a big hit with everyone.
[GIRL 1] What kind of songs
do you sing, Kodani?
Recently, I'd say...
Touko Kirishima.
Seriously?
That's such a surprise!
I'm totally in love
with this song.
[♪ Touko's song playing]
Ah, yes.
Her transparent voice
is so great.
By the way, the other girl
just made it to the station.
So, I guess she's about
ten minutes away from here?
Oh, that's right.
Take a look at this.
I wrote this one.
It looks like one of my DREAMING
posts really came true!
[GIRL 1] You go to matchmaking
parties every week.
Of course it'd come true.
[GIRL 2] But I wrote this
a month ago.
What does that pound sign
DREAMING mean?
It's not a pound sign.
They're called hashtags.
Azusagawa isn't keen
on this stuff
because he doesn't
have a smartphone.
-For real?
-Why not?
So, what is this DREAMING thing?
I've heard my cram school
students talking about it too.
Originally, it was a hashtag
that people used
to describe the dreams they had
and talk about them with others.
[TAKUMI] Oh, and by the way
to show you're talking
about a particular topic.
[GIRL 1] But recently
that a bunch of people's posts
are becoming prophetic dreams.
[RYOHEI] I've done
some research, too.
Scandals involving celebrities
were spot on
and disasters
caused by heavy rain happened.
It's like these dreams
really were prophetic.
[GIRL 2] And my dream
of a matchmaking party.
So their dreams that came true
like a prophecy...
I don't think
they believe you, Chiharu.
Okay, then. For instance
about something happening
in this neighborhood today.
-There is one!
-What is it?
"A dream where I dress
as a fallen angel
for the Sakuragicho
Halloween party
and my boyfriend
in a devil costume kisses me."
Who even cares?
Wait, here's another one.
"I dreamt that
in the Sakuragicho courtyard
the big Jack-o'-lantern
came falling down.
A girl wearing a Red Riding Hood
costume got injured.
Horrible dream
There were a ton of people
at the train station.
Oh, hey, by the way
Azusagawa, you're not going
on a Halloween date?
-Huh?
-Wait, that's right!
Is it true that you're going out
with Mai Sakurajima?
Oh, no. I'm not.
-I thought you were.
-You are dating her, though!
Oh, so you are, huh?
I'm jealous that
you're dating someone like her.
After I saw that movie
I registered
to be an organ donor.
That drama series
is one of my favorites.
The one with that unsociable
high school detective
who makes bento boxes
for the perps every episode.
Believe it or not
for Mai Sakurajima's
partner role
back in middle school.
-Seriously?
-But, like
what do you have to do
to date actual celebrities?
In my case, you go
to the same high school.
That alone isn't enough
to get a date, though.
What I mean is
Well, in the middle of
mid-term exams, I snuck out.
[GIRLS] You snuck out, and?
I went out to the courtyard
while it was empty.
[ALL] Yeah, and?
To confess my feelings
loud enough so that
everyone was able to hear me.
Did you really?
-Yep. It's all true.
-[BOTH] Huh?
I saw the whole thing
from my classroom.
Sorry I'm so late.
I'm a freshman in nursing.
Saki Kamisato.
Azusagawa over there and I
were classmates in high school.
[CHIHARU] Well, Saki
That means you know
Mai Sakurajima, too?
Hold on. Is this what Kunimi
was alluding to the other day?
Well, all right. We're heading
to the after party now.
See you later, Azusagawa.
[giggles]
Okay, then.
I'm taking the subway home.
[sighs]
[SAKUTA] Kunimi is getting
an earful about this.
Huh?
[both grunt]
[gasps]
Akagi?
Sorry. Gotta go.
Mommy!
I want a picture
with the pumpkin!
No, wait! Come back!
-Hey, are you okay?
-Uh-huh.
Mio! Are you hurt anywhere?
No, I'm fine.
[MAN] Thank you very much.
It's nothing.
Did you thank
the nice young lady, dear?
Miss lady, thanks so much.
You're very welcome, Little Red.
AND A GIRL IN A RED RIDING HOOD
COSTUME GOT INJURED.
Did she see that?
Akagi! Hey, wait up!
What is this?
What is she doing?
[♪ closing theme song playing]
RASCAL DOES NOT DREAM
OF A NIGHTINGALE
Oh, Azusagawa.
You are such a rascal.
NEXT EPISODE
#5 DISSONANT NOTES